[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So this is my solution for
the get inside the post controller.
Because get is just going to get back
all the instances of the collection.
>> Speaker 1: But there's a little
difference in how post works because it
has relations, so
we have to change it to slightly different
than what's going on with the other ones.
So what we have to do is
we can just call .find.
I'm just passing an empty object here but
if you just wanna return back
every single one,
you don't really have to pass anything.
I'm just doing this just to be safe.
But you don't have to.
You could just say just
find everything on post.
>> Speaker 1: And then I call .populate.
>> Speaker 1: And remember,
what populate does is it's gonna
go to the fields on this document.
Who has the type?
Well, first, what it will do.
It won't do anything unless you
tell it what fields to populate.
So when you call .populate.
And you give it the fields
that you want to populate,
it will go to these respective
fields on the document.
And it will grab their object IDs,
cuz that's their values.
And then it will go to whatever the ref
says, and it will go to that collection
with the object ID, find it, and
attach it to this field name right here.
So what I mean by that,
if we wrote a post model and
we look, I dunno why that's an array,
it should not be an array.
And we look at the author.
>> Speaker 1: And it's ref is user, so
inside of here, when we say populate
author, what it's doing is, it's gonna
go here, it's gonna grab this object ID,
and it's like,
okay what collection do you belong to?
You belong to the user collection.
Great.
Let me go there with that object ID,
find the appropriate user, and
attach it to this author property.
And it's doing the same thing for
categories.
>> Speaker 1: And because categories is
an array, it'll go inside the array and
get every single one of the categories and
populate it.
I don't know why that was backwards.
That should be an object,
that should've been an array.
>> Speaker 1: And then I have to call
.exec on here, because populate doesn't
return a promise, so I have to call .exec,
and then I just send them all back.
>> Speaker 1: Any questions on this?
The only difference between this and
the rest of them is that
we need to call populate.
The rest of them are just like this.
It's like find them all,
send them all back.
But because we have to populate,
we just wanna populate them.
We don't have to populate,
it's just we probably want that data.
>> Speaker 1: Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: They're asking, so populate
is to hydrate the model's relationships?
>> Speaker 1: Yes,
that's exactly what it is.
That's a good way of
putting it at call time.
But it won't persist in the database,
so remember that.
It's not like creating a join table that's
gonna be atomic and save in the database.
It's only doing that
when you make the query.
It virtually gives it to you.
It's not like I'm gonna make it and
save it for next time.
It's not,
it's only gonna do that at call time.
So yeah it does.
It will hydrate the objects.
>> Speaker 1: Also you might
wanna do a population in here,
all this inside the params on post,
because this is gonna be fired
when we want to update a post,
delete a post, or get one post.
So, it might be nice to
just populate in here, too.
So we probably can do that, so we can
just come in here and do the same thing.
We can just copy that.
And just be like yeah,
just populate here, too.
Boom.
So that by the time we get into
the delete or the getOne or
the put, it's already populated as well.
>> Speaker 1: Any questions on that?
All right.
And then user controller you have to do
the get one I think.
Yeah, this one's pretty straight forward.
You just have to send back the user.
And the reason we can do this, wait,
does anybody know why we can just say
var user or req.user and send that back?
Why can we do that?
>> Speaker 1: Anybody wanna guess?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, cuz we added
it in the params function of both.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, we added it up here.
Because we know when you
make a call to get one,
we know that you have to pass
it an ID as a parameter.
And if you have to pass in a parameter
ID then we know it's going to hit
this one first.
And if it hits this one first then it's
going to attach to the rectile user and
that's going to call next,
which is going to come back down
to get one which has rectile user.
The reason I had you do this first before
the routing is I wanted you to think about
this without having the routing tell you.
Because if you looked at routing it
would be easy to figure that stuff out.
You're just like this has ID or
here's the middleware, it's all in order.
I wanted you to just look
at these functions, and
try to figure out what order they're
gonna happen by looking at the context.
So, you could infer that by
saying req.user that something
inside of here is attaching req.user.
So I just did req.user.
>> Speaker 1: There it is.
Whatever is on the left hand side.
So this is what's happening first.